##Research

My research explores several aspects of digital humanities, especially, scholarly digital editions, electronic text analysis, intertextuality and text reuse, and digital lexicography. I also work with the intersection of the Iberian Peninsula and Italy in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, reconstructing cultural and literary networks between the two.

My research plan aims to combine my different fields of expertise and my previous work, leading to both a book and a digital project. 

The Spaniard historian Alfonso de Palencia published an impressive bilingual dictionary (Latin – Spanish), entitled [*Universal vocabulario en latín y en romance*](http://www.cervantesvirtual.com/obra/universal-vocabulario-en-latin-y-en-romance-tomo-i--0/) (1490); notwithstanding the literary and intellectual value of his work, the majority of Palencia’s works have not received the attention that they deserve. This is the case of the dictionary, which was quickly forgotten following the release of
Antonio de Nebrija’s Castilian dictionaries in 1492. Scholars note that Palencia used noteworthy medieval lexicographical sources, such as Papias (eleventh century), whereas Nebrija was inspired by the new intellectual trends of Italian Humanism; it is worthwhile to further explore this question to confirm or refute it with more convincing data. In this period of crucial relevance for the history of romance literature and intellectual language, the creation of dictionaries is an important achievement. On the one hand, there are few resources to learn Latin, and dictionaries constitute the most important tool. On the other, and especially during the fifteenth century, scholars mirror their linguistic style to the usage of Classical Latin authors.

My research inquiry into fifteenth-century dictionaries leads to **my second book project** provisionally titled *Building Meanings and Linguistic Identities in Medieval and Early Modern Iberia*. In this book manuscript I argue that dictionaries are primary sources worthy of historical, cultural, and even anthropological analysis. The fascinating development of medieval etymology and lexicography, where we find figures such as Jerome, Isidore of Seville, or Papias, is a story of a recasting of ideas, while also of innovation and creativity. The first chapter of the book is devoted to these sources and their reception in the Iberian Peninsula, both from the perspective of textual transmission and the reception of ideas. Chapter two focuses on Alfonso de Palencia’s *Universal Vocabulario*. In this chapter, I deploy both close and distant readings of Palencia’s text, in order to trace the debt to tradition through intertextual patterns as well as the originality of his definitions. The results of a distant reading, based on stylistic and electronic textual analysis, will enrich the intertextual connections with prior works. The third chapter goes in the opposite temporal direction, exploring how later authors, like Antonio de Nebrija, Sebastián de Covarrubias, and other authors, like Diego of Guadix, were indebted to the dictionary and to its cultural context.

Along with the book, I plan to work on a new **digital project** that will integrate two lines of research: 

* First, I plan to digitize Palencia’s dictionary. The encoding will be fashioned according the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative, and the search infrastructure will be built with a native XML database. Furthermore, the encoding will foresee a lemmatization of the corpus, as well as be connected with other textual databases of Latin, European Medieval Latin, and historical romance lexicographical works in order to link data, build lexical networks, and enhance consultation and further research. 

* The second line of research comprises the creation of a textual corpus based on the above-mentioned authors. This corpus will allow the assembling, encoding, analyzing, and studying of these medieval and early modern texts. The electronic textual analysis will provide information on the linguistic diversity and the use of certain terms, whereas the use of stylometric and intertextual tools will offer more significant results about the visualization of reception and influence between works.