---
layout: materials
title: The Culture of Spain. Material culture (the manuscript, the print and the digital)
permalink: /courses/SPA302/:title.html
collection: courses
---

## Spring 2017
## Prof. Susanna Allés Torrent

### Description of the course
This course is a historical survey of the cultures of Spain through material culture and the history and the idea of the book. All cultures produce objects, and the book, such as we know it nowadays, has had many different shapes. We will explore how each period has materialized texts: the making, the circulation, the trade, the reception, the readers, but also the cultural and literary context. We will pay careful attention to the shift from the manuscript to the printed text, and from print to digital. The course will have an important component of writing in Spanish, and will give special relevance to developing a digital literacy, giving you the necessary skills to work with tools and resources for literary and cultural analysis.


Fecha	Preparar antes de venir a clase	En clase

Semana 1
1. Martes, 17 enero		
2. Jueves, 19 enero		
	
Semana 2	
3. Martes, 24 enero		
4. Jueves, 26 enero		
	
Semana 3	
5. Martes, 31 enero		
6. Jueves, 2 febrero		
	
Semana 4	
7. Martes, 7 febrero		
8. Jueves, 9 febrero		
	
Semana 5	
9. Martes, 14 febrero		
10. Jueves, 16 febrero		
	
Semana 6	
11. Martes, 21 febrero		
12. Jueves, 23 febrero		
	
Semana 7	
13. Martes, 28 febrero		
14. Jueves, marzo		
	
Semana 8	
15. Martes, 7 marzo		
16. Jueves, 9 marzo		
	
Spring Break 13-19 marzo	
	
Semana 9	
17. Martes, 21 marzo		
18. Jueves, 23 marzo		
	
Semana 10	
19. Martes, 28 marzo		
20. Jueves, 30 marzo		
	
Semana 11	
21. Martes, 4 abril		
22. Jueves, 6 abril		
	
Semana 12	
23. Martes, 11 abril		
24. Jueves, 13 abril		
	
Semana 13	
25. Martes, 18 abril		
26. Jueves, 20 abril		
	
Semana 14	
27. Martes, 25 abril		
28. Jueves, 27 abril		Último día de clases
		

